all right so this is my review of the
new m1 equipped
macbook air macbook pro as well as the
new
mac mini it's the review of the m1
devices
now i know that this is a very important
product not just for apple but for you
guys like i know a lot of you guys are
very interested to see how does this
stuff actually perform right some of the
benchmarks that they were showing during
the presentation were really vague
and at the same time because it's apple
i know a lot of you guys
want to see this stuff fail right so i
approached this whole review with a
very very neutral mind just like as
fair as possible to just evaluate it
from the perspective of
not someone who's gonna buy it right
because that already biases your brain
into
some in a direction that i wanted to
avoid
i looked at this from the perspective of
like just
a nerd a tech nerd so we got three
devices
and i got to see up front the
performance of these three machines
was so much better than they thought
they could possibly be i had to rerun
benchmarks
rerun tests over and over because the
numbers just
they didn't make sense to me i thought i
was screwing something up i thought i
was botching the test somehow
but i reran them enough to the point
where i feel confident that
this is just what it is so we're going
to start off here with the cinebench r23
benchmark and the
single core performance on m1 is fast
like really fast it's on par with any of
the top single core performers on the
market so
amd's best stuff intel's best stuff it
keeps up
then we move on to multi-core
performance and this is where you start
to see a bigger difference between the
three machines the macbook pro
and the mac mini because they are
actively cooled like they have
fans inside them they can maintain a
fast clock speed or like a high clock
speed throughout the
entire duration of the test to the point
where there seemingly isn't very much
thermal throttling even if you let this
test extend on
indefinitely like they're just able to
keep up
with the heat output of the m1 chip the
macbook air
it does throttle but the most weird
thing to me was that
this chip doesn't throttle quickly like
you don't
see it happen on the macbook air until
about like the
eight or nine minute mark like you push
it full tilt
and at minute eight and a half that's
when it starts to slow down
but usually it happens within seconds on
a fanless device like this
let's talk about real world applications
so i'm someone who
doesn't use apple's applications but
we'll kind of cover the stuff first
because this is what m1 is supposed to
do right
you take apple hardware run apple
software
how does it do so this is a chart of
xcode build times it's the time it takes
for the program
xcode to compile the code and you can
see a list of some pretty decently
specked out systems these are systems
have access to
and so my friends that have are
developers i ask them to test at this
chunk
of code give me back their numbers and
all those numbers make sense to me right
i've
i've had some decent experience with
this stuff these are numbers that i
would expect
and then i threw them into m1 and the
numbers
that came out the build times were
stupidly fast like to the point where i
actually thought that i wasn't compiling
it properly like i wasn't doing a fresh
build and i did it over and over again
cleared the cache like these are legit
this
is super fast to the point where i had a
friend
he actually makes an app a pretty well
known app i can't reveal his name
because
he uses a hackintosh a 3950x 16 core
really decked out system specifically
for
development right this is his build time
somehow
these m1 devices are keeping up one of
them being
fanless it's pretty crazy and this was
the moment like when i got the numbers
back i was like
this is this is real apple silicon is
real now
i edit videos in something called adobe
premiere but it's not native to apple
silicon yet so i was testing
final cut and the performance there is
insane
i don't just mean like oh final cut's
faster than premiere i'm saying that
apple final cut running on apple silicon
is so much faster and so much better
performing
than apple's existing like high-end
systems it keeps up with the 16-inch
macbook pro
like what is going on now i want to move
this conversation onto what i feel like
is the more
important testing how do non-native apps
run
on m1 right because the vast majority of
apps out there are still not
optimized for this type of hardware and
here's the thing i've had experience
with several companies that have tried
to make arm-based
chips that run non-arm-based
software there's emulation involved and
usually
it's not great so i had very low
expectations right
i fired this thing up and adobe premiere
this is again an application that was
written for x86
it's not optimized right now and it runs
weirdly well like so much better than i
thought it would so
this is playback of red raw footage 5k
it's pretty gnarly stuff and there's no
skipped frames completely smooth
this is not what you would expect from a
non-native app
running on an arm-based chip like it's
just so
strange and you know at this point you
guys probably think i sound like a
fanboy but i just gotta call it like i
see it
my brain had an expectation i had this
idea of what
good would be for m1 and this so far
exceeds it so it's just it's just what
it is
okay it's strangely good in terms of the
cpu performance
now i also tested the gpu performance
now
in order to do that i just have to play
games and run gaming benchmarks and the
gpu performance
is good but it's not amazing right it
just boils down to that eight core gpu
being limited both by wattage and just
by size you can't compare this to
a discrete gpu they might find in like a
16-inch macbook pro
it's impressive for what it is but you
just can't keep up with the big boys
yet now battery life
battery life so i did a bunch of tests
the first thing i wanted to do
just to test the claims of apple's 20
hour thing so that's on this one
the macbook pro they claim this that can
hit 20 hours of
video playback i set it to the exact
same configuration so it's
half brightness so that's eight ticks
and i hit it i hit the 20 hours now
granted
that is a darker screen than my normal
testing i normally run at 250 nits
i redid the whole thing at my brightness
i still got really good numbers
and that to me is one of the best
features of apple silicon right now the
power efficiency
is something special okay i want to move
on to some concerns i feel like i've had
and you guys probably share as well
the first one is apps right
this is the most important and
fundamental
core of an ecosystem right if you don't
have good apps that support all the
hardware then it's
useless so two things number one i've
always believed that the developers
would come to this platform but
having seen the pace at which people
have been developing
for apple silicon i am super convinced
that
it's good it's not an issue it really is
a non-issue the other thing
is that these aren't just developers
that are just making stuff
you know on a short-term basis the
developers that we've seen
in apple's ecosystem tend to be people
that are really good
teams that are so good at making
extremely
high performance highly optimized apps
for the hardware
like some of my friends do it and i've
seen the development projects like i
follow the stuff
i see how good they are doing it and so
if you're concerned about apps not
appearing on this stuff
i really don't think it's gonna be thing
with apple silicon number two
ports or the lack of ports so all of
these devices have two
usbc ports or thunderbolt ports and
it's a downgrade for a lot of users
right the mac mini used to have four now
it has two the macbook pro
used to have four or you could get up to
four now has two
uh the macbook air still remains at two
and on the laptops you can have up to
two technically three displays up at
once you can have the laptop screen you
have an external screen
and you can connect sidecar if you count
that as a screen so
both laptops support two and a half or
three screens
the mac mini also supports three screens
you have
uh two externals and you can have again
sidecar
but connectivity for the two-port
macbook pro is
really tight to the point where i feel
like some developers wouldn't be able to
use this system
because of its lack of ports which is
unfortunate considering how
capable the system is otherwise and
they'd have to go with a mac mini if
they want to go with apple silicon
now when it comes to choosing between
the macbook air
and the macbook pro so obviously there's
some hardware differences like the
brighter screen and the touch bar and
stuff like that but the macbook air is
actually really powerful
much more powerful than the old macbook
air running intel hardware
and because the thermal throttling
doesn't kick in until like the nine
minute mark
this can go way further than you would
think like you can edit stuff in
photoshop you can video edit
you can code really comfortably on the
system it is a really capable
macbook air like this product the
macbook pro
even though it has the fan it doesn't
really stick out as being
a significantly better system for pros
so my thoughts on apple silicon right
now
it's that this hardware is impressive it
really surprised me as to how good it
was
however i do feel like this is
generation one
and when it comes to generation one of
anything the
the rate at which things improve is
super fast right generation two
generation three
they tend to just roll through technical
improvements
super fast so i wouldn't be surprised if
like when m2 and m3 come out
we're seeing double triple quadruple the
capabilities of what this stuff is
already right so just it's something to
keep in mind when you make a purchase
decision i think if you're someone who
has just been looking for
apple hardware you need a macbook for
whatever reason you want to replace
something that's old
this is it's good like it really is
something good
aesthetically it doesn't have a new look
the 13-inch screen has some big bezels
and the 720p webcam still doesn't look
amazing
but the performance is on point unless
you care about graphics and i really
can't stress that enough the gpu in m1
is good it's so much better than the
integrated stuff from intel
but i really feel like they're gonna
bring out some crazy good gpus
real soon that's just it's just bound to
happen considering the progress they've
made
already so if you're someone who cares
about graphics i'd hold out and if
you're a windows user and you're looking
at these benchmarks and you're thinking
i wish i had something that had that
kind of
energy efficiency coming down the pipe
we do have lakefield from intel to look
forward to we also have the
like the mobile ryzen 5000 chips coming
in those
should be pretty good now i want to
leave this video off with one last
thought that i've said before in
previous videos but i'm just going to
repeat it in this one
it's that if you're someone who's
picking up a laptop right now or
hardware in general and you're looking
at this stuff and you're like this is
the best
and it looks super appealing and i can
see why it would be keep in mind
that with apple's hardware and this is
not a chirp on apple this is just the
nature of their ecosystem when you have
when you give a company like apple full
control the full stack the hardware the
software they can make amazing stuff
like this
it works you saw the numbers right it
works
stupidly good but you also
lose a lot of control over your hardware
decisions
like i said this before when apple does
awesome stuff
we all love it but when they make stuff
that's a little bit weird like butterfly
keyboards and
touch bars on their keyboards that
people don't love
you have to use that stuff as well if
you're in the ecosystem
just put it out there for the people
that care about this kind of stuff okay
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
if you liked it subs if you loved it
see you guys next time
[Music]
you